even though the stoic teachings are
geared towards tranquility the end goal
is living virtuously and in accordance
with nature so there's something as
being successful as a stoic which is
living a life of virtue but no matter
what we pursue the works of Emperor
Marcus Aurelius contain many teachings
based on logic and reason that can help
us improve our mindset in order to be
successful here are five of them
[Music]
one create your teachers Marcus Aurelius
learned from many people in his closed
environment it's very inspiring to read
how he extracts the positive aspects of
people and sees these as lessons to
incorporate in his own life
for example from his mother he learned
generosity from his great grandfather he
learned to avoid public schools and hire
good private teachers from diognetus he
learned to not waste time on nonsense
and from Maximus he learned self-control
Marcus described many different people
as his teachers from close family
members to the gods so for him teachers
don't have to be literal teachers but
they can be anybody instead of a
fault-finding
he focuses on the good aspects of each
individual that he can incorporate in
his own life
that can inspire us to do the same we
can take a good look at the people in
our own environment and instead of
judging their flaws
we can admire them for the good
characteristics they possess we can also
look at philosophers certain celebrities
and even religious figures to see what
they can teach us also people we
consider bad or toxic often have
something admirable about them a trait
that we might want to cultivate
ourselves this way we create teachers
out of the people around us instead of
competitors enemies and villains by
working together and benefiting each
other we're more likely to become
successful than the other way around the
next four teachings are based on the
fourth book of Marcus Aurelius
meditations let's start with number two
stop caring about them this may sound a
bit contradicting to the previous
teaching but when it comes to other
people markers points out the importance
of not caring I quote the tranquility
that comes when you stop caring what
they say or think or do only what you do
not to be distracted by their darkness
to run straight for the finish line
unswerving and quote too often we see
people hold back each other when I
started this channel for example many
people were skeptical I thought I would
be better off and more secure focusing
on my regular job in a way there
right the nine-to-five jive is generally
more secure but the thing is they speak
from their perspective which might be
completely different than yours this
doesn't mean that it isn't useful to ask
people for advice but at the end of the
day the person who knows what's best for
you is you the skeptics
didn't have my vision and my knowledge
so they weren't able to visualize my
ideas the way I could even though I
respect their opinions
I didn't let these people stop me from
continuing my plans a part of these
sceptics probably have good intentions
but there are those that malevolently
try to sabotage us when this is the case
the advice of Marcus Aurelius is King
don't be distracted by their darkness
many people are envious many people take
delight in seeing others fail this has
more to do with their insecurities and
shortcomings than with ourselves my book
an offender ball discusses how stoicism
can help us to care less about what
people think so we can as marcus puts it
run straight for the finish line
unswerving three do what's essential
now another teaching by marcus aurelius
can be seen as a form of minimalism many
people myself included have fallen into
the trap of doing many things that
aren't relevant wasting a lot of time
and energy when we don't have a clear
image of what we have to do to reach our
goals
we become aimless the consequence is
that we become stressed out or even
burned out that's why it's important to
stick with the essentials I quote if you
seek tranquility or more accurately do
what's essential what the logos of a
social being requires and in the
requisite way which brings a double
satisfaction to do less better because
most of what we say and do is not
essential if you can eliminate it you'll
have more time and more tranquillity ask
yourself at every moment is this
necessary but we need to eliminate
unnecessary assumptions as well to
eliminate the unnecessary actions that
follow
and quote depending on what we want
doing the essential never fills us if we
want more tranquility in life do what's
essential if you want to build a
business do what's essential and we
doubt everything irrelevant for me I
write down the tasks for the day on the
night before these tasks could be
writing a script shopping for groceries
or any other activity besides laying on
a couch this gives me focus even before
I go to bed the clarity of what I need
to do the next day helps me to sleep
better as well it also shields me from
doing stuff that's not essential because
my tasks are clear-cut 4 change your
perception hardship is part of life when
we're trying to achieve something we can
expect resistance Marcus Aurelius
experienced many setbacks during his
reign as emperor of Rome the plague
betrayal and his wife Faustina cheated
on him with Casius the governor of Syria
when he himself was sick but as the
stoic he was Marcus Aurelius stayed
grounded accepting these events as part
of nature and thus beyond his control
whether or not we are harmed by hardship
doesn't depend on the hardship itself
but on the way we look at it so it's a
matter of perception I quote choose not
to be harmed and you won't feel harmed
don't feel harmed and you haven't been
end quote
Marcus advice sounds a bit simplistic
but it's actually the basis of a popular
and widely used method in psychology
called cognitive behavioral therapy this
therapy is based on the idea that
emotions are rooted in thought thus a
certain event isn't the root of how we
feel but our thoughts about this event
are if we instead of a version develop a
neutrality towards the thing we perceive
as undesirable
we don't feel harmed when we incur it
and if we don't feel harmed we haven't
been knowing this makes us more
resilient on our path to success because
it's much easier to accept setbacks and
continue despite
them five follow nature's way the last
teaching is a bit similar to the third
one but fundamentally different
the third teaching is to do what's
essential this means that we do only the
things that are necessary following
nature's way means taking the shortest
and easiest route this idea is also
prevalent in Taoism and Eastern
philosophy that values the path of least
resistance so how to follow nature's way
I quote take the shortest route the one
that nature planned to speak and act in
the healthiest way do that and be free
of pain and stress free of all
calculation and pretension and quote
well I admit Marcus advice is a bit
vague although considering the stoic end
goal he might be pointing to living
virtuously thus conformably to stoic
ethics however in the second book of
meditations he tells us to consider the
nature of the world our own nature and
how we relate to the world so we could
ask ourselves what are my strengths what
are my weaknesses what activities are
most fitting for me in what way can I
contribute to the world that fits my own
nature do I perform better alone or do I
work better in teams etc by respecting
our own nature and just being who we are
as humans and as individuals we might
discover the shortest and easiest route
to success there's no fixed set of
criteria when it comes to following our
own nature we have to find out ourselves
what's right for us there's an
ideological and ethical side to this
from a stoic perspective our success
must be a contribution to humanity one
can be a successful drug dealer but from
an ethical point of view this person's
success is tragic for Humanity and not
only for humanity but for the person
itself as well as this quote/unquote
profession goes hand in hand with great
stress calculation pretension and a risk
for violence in the name of greed as a
stoic it's essential to take into
consideration in what manner personal
success benefits the world
if it harms the world it isn't success
as marker states my city and state are
Rome as Antoninus but as a human being
the world so for me good can only mean
what's good for both communities now
that's it
thank you for watching
[Music]
[Applause]
you
[Music]